# paypatmeg
## Frequency-Specific Resting-State MEG Network Characteristics of Tinnitus Patients Revealed by Graph Learning

Tinnitus, the perception of sound without an external source, affects a substantial portion of the population. However, insights into how it alters the brain communication diagram known as the functional connectome remain limited. Functional connectivity (FC) builds upon pairwise comparison of activity time-courses through methods such as Pearson correlation, phase lag index, and coherence. Thus these methods are limited in providing a holistic encoding of FC. Here, we employ an alternative approach to estimate the entire connectivity structure by analyzing all time-courses simultaneously. This approach is robust even for short-duration recordings, facilitating faster functional connectome identification and real-time applications. Using resting-state MEG recordings from controls and individuals with tinnitus, we demonstrated that the learned connectomes outperform correlation-based connectomes in fingerprinting, that is, identifying an individual from test-retest acquisitions. Group-level analysis revealed distinct altered FC in tinnitus across multiple frequency bands, affecting the default mode, auditory, visual, and salience networks, suggesting a complex reorganization of these large-scale  networks that extend beyond auditory areas.
Our study reveals that tinnitus manifests itself through highly individualized and heterogeneous connectome profiles. These unique brain fingerprints underscore the need to focus on individual variability rather than group-level differences to gain a more nuanced understanding of tinnitus.  
Personalized FC may pave the way for the development of patient-centric tinnitus models to improve the optimization of treatment strategies for individualized care.

Preprint available at following [link](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.03.10.642147v2.full.pdf)
